2022 JavaScript chapter (#3137)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2022/javascript.md

#TODO - Review and update chapter description
description: JavaScript chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac covering the usage of JavaScript on the web, libraries and frameworks, compression, web components, and source maps.
authors: [malchata, ibnesayeed]
reviewers: [mgechev, pankajparkar, NishuGoel, seldo, housseindjirdeh, kevinfarrugia, tunetheweb]
analysts: [NishuGoel, kevinfarrugia]

> editors: [rviscomi]

Author: ```suggestion
editors: [DesignrKnight, rviscomi]
```

> authors: [malchata, ibnesayeed]

Author: @malchata can you suggest a bio we can include at the bottom of the chapter? Last year's for reference: https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2021/javascript#authors

Reviewer: This has been my usual bio:

"[Jeremy Wagner](https://jlwagner.net/) is a technical writer for Google on performance and Core Web Vitals. He has also written for A List Apart, CSS-Tricks, and Smashing Magazine. Jeremy will someday relocate to the remote wilderness where sand has not yet been taught to think. Until then, he continues to reside in Minnesota’s Twin Cities with his wife and stepdaughters, bemoaning the existence of strip malls."

Author: Thanks!

reviewers: [mgechev, pankajparkar, NishuGoel, seldo, housseindjirdeh, kevinfarrugia]

> analysts: [NishuGoel, kevinfarrugia]

Author: @malchata can you suggest edits to these lists to ensure that they only contain people who actually contributed and are roughly ordered so the ones with the biggest contributions are first?

Reviewer 2: Did quite a thorough review here, so going to stick myself down in the reviewer section:

```suggestion
authors: [malchata, ibnesayeed]
reviewers: [mgechev, pankajparkar, NishuGoel, seldo, housseindjirdeh, kevinfarrugia, tunetheweb]
analysts: [NishuGoel, kevinfarrugia]
```

editors: [rviscomi]
translators: []
results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vOeFUyfEtWRen3Xj57ZsWav40n5tlcJoV0HmAxmNE_I/

> featured_quote: TODO

Author: @malchata can you suggest a brief quote and three of the most noteworthy stats from this chapter that we could use to feature it on our home page?

Reviewer: Quote:

> "The state of JavaScript is a constantly evolving phenomenon. It's clear that we have an increased reliance on it more than ever, but that spells trouble for the collective user experience of the web. We need to do all we can—and _more_—to stem the tide of how much JavaScript we ship on production websites."

Stats:

1. 26% of the top million pages transform code with Babel.
2. Mobile devices download 8% more JavaScript in 2022 than in 2021.
3. Hosts at the 90th percentile ship 34 third-party scripts.

WDYT @rviscomi?

Reviewer 2: Suggested ones:

```
featured_quote: The state of JavaScript is a constantly evolving phenomenon. It's clear that we have an increased reliance on it more than ever, but that spells trouble for the collective user experience of the web. We need to do all we can—and more—to stem the tide of how much JavaScript we ship on production websites.
featured_stat_1: 26%
featured_stat_label_1: Top million pages that transform code with Babel
featured_stat_2: 8%
featured_stat_label_2: Extra JavaScript downloaded in last year on mobile
featured_stat_3: 20
featured_stat_label_3: Median third-party scripts shipped
```

Changes from your suggestions:
- Remove unnecessary italics from quote (we try to avoid over using them in the Web Almanac)
- Rephrase stats to fit in stat/label format
- Suggest using median rather than 90th percentile for featured stats.

Reviewer: Works for me!

  )
}}

According to [Lighthouse](https://web.dev/unused-javascript/), the median mobile page loads 162 KB of unused JavaScript. At the 90th percentile, 604 KB of JavaScript are unused. This is a slight uptick from last year, where the median and 90th percentile of unused JavaScript was 155 KB and 598 KB, respectively. All of this represents a _very_ large amount of unused JavaScript, especially when you consider that this analysis tracks the _transfer size_ of JavaScript resources which, if compressed, means that the decompressed portion of used JavaScript may be a lot larger than the chart suggests.

When contrasted with the total number of bytes loaded for mobile pages at the median, unused JavaScript accounts for 35% of all loaded scripts. This is down slightly from last year's figure of 36%, but is still a significantly large chunk of bytes loaded that go unused. This suggests that many pages are loading scripts that may not be used on the current page, or are triggered by interactions later on in the page lifecycle, and may benefit from [dynamic `import()`](#dynamic-import) to reduce startup costs.

## JavaScript requests per page

> Every resource on a page accounts for one request, and scripts are no different. When many scripts are loaded, it's reasonable to think that more bytes of JavaScript may be loaded as a result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When many scripts are loaded on a page, there's a higher potential more bytes of JavaScript may be loaded as a result.
```

Reviewer: Thoughts on this wording @tunetheweb?

Reviewer 2: To be honest I think it's kind of redundant. "When you load more, you're probably loading more".

I do think the potential for clashes is higher and maybe that's a more interesting take?

<figure markdown>
Feature | Desktop | Mobile
-- | -- | --
`async` | 49.3% | 47.2%
`defer` | 8.8% | 9.1%
`async` and `defer` | 3.0% | 3.1%
`module` | 0.4% | 0.4%
`nomodule` | 0.0% | 0.0%

  <figcaption>{{ figure_link(
    caption='Percentage of pages using `async`, `defer`, `async` _and_ `defer`, `type="module"`, and `nomodule` attributes on `<script>` elements.',
    sheets_gid="357655091",
    sql_file="breakdown_of_scripts_using_async_defer_module_nomodule.sql"
  ) }}</figcaption>
</figure>

It's encouraging that 47% of mobile pages load scripts with `async`, as that suggests developers are cognizant of the effects of render blocking. However, such a low usage of `defer` suggests that there are opportunities being left on the table to improve rendering performance.

> 

Reviewer 2: Reopening this as not sure you saw my comment below the suggestion @rviscomi / @malchata ?

> 

Reviewer: I'm not really sure how to wordsmith this, @tunetheweb. Would you mind taking a shot at it?

> 

Reviewer 2: Good news @malchata ! You actually already had both stats - and just included the wrong ones.

I think both are interesting though so fix the first stats, and added the other ones with some explanation in this commit: https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/pull/3137/commits/171f162e430713bef3f6eef07d4c8476565c8e18

I'm going to merge this when CI completes so it'll be included in Monday's launch, but feel free to open a follow up PR to change this if you don't like what I added.

`prefetch` is tricky to use, though it can be beneficial for long, multi-page sessions. Even so, `prefetch` is entirely speculative, so much so that browsers may ignore it in certain conditions. This means some pages may waste data by requesting resources which go unused. It really "just depends".

The lack of use of `modulepreload` makes sense, since adoption of the `type="module"` attribute on `<script>` elements is similarly low. Even so, apps that ship JavaScript modules without transformations could benefit from this resource hint, as it will not fetch just the named resource, but the entire module tree. This could help in certain situations.

Let's dig into an analysis of how many of each resource hint type is used.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="prefetch.png",
    caption="Distribution of `prefetch` adoption for JavaScript resources per page.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=987611412&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="397179470",
    sql_file="resource-hints-preload-prefetch-modulepreload-distribution.sql"
  )

> }}

Reviewer 2: Retaking the fallback images on my machine seemed to fix it. Resolving this.

Adoption of `prefetch` here is somewhat surprising, with three `prefetch` hints for JavaScript resources per page. However, the number of these hints at the 75th and 90th percentiles suggests that there may be a fair amount of waste in the form of unused resources for page navigations that never occur.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="preload.png",
    caption="Distribution of `preload` adoption for JavaScript resources per page.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=1371197443&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="397179470",
    sql_file="resource-hints-preload-prefetch-modulepreload-distribution.sql"
  )
}}

> Remember—this analysis tracks how many resource hints are used for _JavaScript_ resources on pages that use one or more `preload` hints. The median page is delivering two `preload` hints for JavaScript, which isn't bad on its face, but it often depends on the _size_ of the script, how much processing scripts can kick off, or whether the script fetched via `preload` is even needed for the initial page load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember—this analysis tracks how many resource hints are used for _JavaScript_ resources on pages that use one or more `preload` hints. The median page is delivering two `preload` hints for JavaScript, which isn't bad on its face, but it often depends on the size of the script, how much processing scripts can kick off, or whether the script fetched via `preload` is even needed for the initial page load.
```

> Unfortunately, we see five `preload` hints for JavaScript resources at the 90th percentile, which may be too much. This suggests that pages at the 90th percentile are especially reliant on JavaScript, and are using preload to try and overcome the performance issues that result.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, we see five `preload` hints for JavaScript resources at the 90th percentile, which may be too much. This suggests that pages at the 90th percentile are especially reliant on JavaScript, and are using `preload` to try and overcome the performance issues that result.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    image="modulepreload.png",
    caption="Distribution of `modulepreload` adoption for JavaScript resources per page.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=100852946&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="397179470",
    sql_file="resource-hints-preload-prefetch-modulepreload-distribution.sql"
  )
}}

> With `modulepreload`, we see a staggering 6 hints at the 75th percentile, and _14_ at the 90th percentile. This suggests that, while pages using one or more `modulepreload` hints at upper percentiles are shipping untransformed ES6 modules directly to the browser, the need for so many resource hints suggests an overreliance on JavaScript at the upper range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With `modulepreload`, we see a staggering 6 hints at the 75th percentile, and 14 at the 90th percentile! This suggests that, while pages using one or more `modulepreload` hints at upper percentiles are shipping untransformed ES6 modules directly to the browser, the need for so many resource hints suggests an overreliance on JavaScript at the upper range.
```

> Resource hints are great tools for optimizing how we load resources in the browser, but if there's one piece of advice you can heed when using them, it's to use them sparingly, and for resources that may not be initially discoverable; for example, a JavaScript file initially loaded in the DOM that requests another one. Rather than preloading loads of scripts, try to whittle down the _amount_ of JavaScript you're shipping, as that will lead to a better user experience rather than preloading gobs of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resource hints are great tools for optimizing how we load resources in the browser, but if there's one piece of advice you can heed when using them, it's to use them sparingly, and for resources that may not be initially discoverable; for example, a JavaScript file initially loaded in the DOM that requests another one. Rather than preloading loads of scripts, try to whittle down the amount of JavaScript you're shipping, as that will lead to a better user experience rather than preloading gobs of it.
```

Also is "gobs" a good word here?

Reviewer 2: Reopening cause of my "gobs" comment. Happy to go with it if you are, but think it's a bit of a weird word and non-English natives may not get it?

Reviewer: Maybe. I'm fairly familiar with a fair bit of slang from the region, but maybe s/gobs/tons?

{{ figure_markup(
    image="injected-scripts.png",
    caption="Distribution of percentage of injected scripts across various percentiles.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=389798470&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="1017601908",
    sql_file="distribution_of_injected_scripts.sql"
  )
}}

At the median, we see that 25% of a page's scripts are injected, as opposed to leaving them discoverable in the initial HTML response. More concerning is that the 75th and 90th percentiles of pages inject 50% and 70% of scripts respectively.

Script injection has [the potential to harm performance](https://www.igvita.com/2014/05/20/script-injected-async-scripts-considered-harmful/) when used to render page content the user consumes, and should be avoided in these cases whenever necessary. That script injection is so prevalent in today's web is a concerning trend. Modern frameworks and tooling may rely on this pattern, which means that some out-of-the-box experiences may rely on this potential anti-pattern to provide functionality for websites.

> ### First-party vs. third-party JavaScript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### First-party versus third-party JavaScript
```

While first-party JavaScript may be easier to optimize, third-party JavaScript can itself be a significant source of performance problems, as third-party vendors may not prioritize the optimization of their JavaScript resources over adding new features to serve additional business functions for their clients. Additionally, UX researchers, marketers, and other non-technical personnel may be hesitant to give up functionality or sources of revenue that these scripts provide.

In this section, we'll analyze the breakdown of first-party and third-party code, and comment on the current state of how websites today are divvying up how they load JavaScript—and where from.

#### Requests

{{ figure_markup(
    image="requests-party.png",
    caption="Distribution of first- versus third-party JavaScript requests by host.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=2001603308&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="755344459",
    sql_file="requests_by_3p.sql"
  )
}}

> Here, we see a sobering picture. Regardless of the percentile, it seems that all observed hosts are serving an equivalent amount of first and third-party scripts. The median host serves 10 of each type, the 75th percentile serves 20 of each type, and the 90th percentile host serves _34 third-party scripts_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, we see a sobering picture. Regardless of the percentile, it seems that all observed hosts are serving an equivalent amount of first and third-party scripts. The median host serves 10 of each type, the 75th percentile serves 20 of each type, and the 90th percentile host serves 34 third-party scripts!
```

Steps for mitigating third-party scripts is often more of a cultural affair than an engineering one. If you're shipping excessive third-party scripts, conduct an audit of each script, what they do, and profile their activity to find out what performance problems they're incurring.

If you're doing considerable UX research, consider collecting your own field data (if the origin sends a proper [`Timing-Allow-Origin`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Timing-Allow-Origin) header) to make informed decisions to avoid the performance problems that some third-party scripts can cause. For every third-party script you add, you're not just incurring loading costs, but also costs during runtime where responsiveness to user input is crucial.

#### Bytes

> So we know that hosts are shipping a lot of third-party scripts, but what's the byte cost of first- versus third-party scripts?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So we know that hosts are shipping a lot of third-party scripts, but what's the byte cost of first versus third-party scripts?
```

Author: I think the dangling hyphen is correct?

Reviewer 2: Seems it's debated: https://onlinewritingtraining.com.au/hanging-hyphens/

But after checking, it's in our style guide: https://developers.google.com/style/hyphens#suspended-hyphens. Another thing I disagree with. Wonder if it's a UK versus US thing?

Anyway resolving this as you're right by our style guide.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="bytes-party.png",
    caption="Distribution of first- versus third-party JavaScript bytes by host.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=1411726363&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="1560368150",
    sql_file="bytes_by_3p.sql"
  )
}}

> At nearly every percentile, the amount of bytes third-party scripts ship exceeds that of first-party scripts. At the 75th percentile, it appears that third-party script payloads are _twice_ that of first-party scripts. At the 90th percentile, it appears that the amount of third-party scripts sent over the wire is nearly _one megabyte_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At nearly every percentile, the amount of bytes third-party scripts ship exceeds that of first-party scripts. At the 75th percentile, it appears that third-party script payloads are twice that of first-party scripts. At the 90th percentile, it appears that the amount of third-party scripts sent over the wire is nearly one megabyte.
```

### Dynamic `import()`

[Dynamic `import()`](https://v8.dev/features/dynamic-import) is a variant of the [static `import` syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) that can be run anywhere in a script, whereas static `import` expressions must be run at the top of a JavaScript file and nowhere else.

Dynamic `import()` allows developers to effectively "split" off chunks of JavaScript code from their main bundles to be loaded on-demand, which can improve startup performance by loading less JavaScript upfront.

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages using dynamic `import()`.",
    content="0.34%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="563835654",
    sql_file="dynamic_import.sql"
  )
}}

A staggeringly low 0.34% of all observed mobile pages currently use dynamic `import()`, while 0.41% of desktop pages use it. This is a missed opportunity to ship less code during startup. Perhaps dynamic `import()` is not seeing much use because it shifts the loading of JavaScript on-demand for features, rather than upfront.

> It's tricky, but a balance _can_ be struck, and it involves gauging the user's intent. One way of deferring loading of JavaScript without delaying interactions is to [preload](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Link_types/preload) that JavaScript when the user signals intent to make an interaction. One example of this could be to defer loading JavaScript for the validation of a form, and preload that JavaScript once the user has focused a field in that form. That way, when the JavaScript is requested, it will already be in the browser cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's tricky, but a balance can be struck, and it involves gauging the user's intent. One way of deferring loading of JavaScript without delaying interactions is to [preload](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Link_types/preload) that JavaScript when the user signals intent to make an interaction. One example of this could be to defer loading JavaScript for the validation of a form, and preload that JavaScript once the user has focused a field in that form. That way, when the JavaScript is requested, it will already be in the browser cache.
```

Another way could be to use a service worker to precache JavaScript necessary for interactions when the service worker is installed. Installation should occur at a point in which the page has fully loaded in the page's [`load` event](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/load_event). That way, when the necessary functionality is requested, it can be retrieved from the service worker cache without startup costs.

> Dynamic `import()` _is_ tricky to use, but more widespread adoption of it can help shift the performance cost of loading JavaScript from startup to a later point in the page lifecycle, presumably when there will be less network contention for resources. We hope to see increased adoption of dynamic `import()`, as the amount of JavaScript we see loaded during startup is only increasing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dynamic `import()` is tricky to use, but more widespread adoption of it can help shift the performance cost of loading JavaScript from startup to a later point in the page lifecycle, presumably when there will be less network contention for resources. We hope to see increased adoption of dynamic `import()`, as the amount of JavaScript we see loaded during startup is only increasing.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The number of mobile pages using web workers.",
    content="12%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="1990906363",
    sql_file="web_workers.sql"
  )
}}

It's heartening to see that 12% of mobile and desktop pages currently use one or more web workers to relieve the main thread of work that could potentially make the user experience worse—but there's a lot of room for improvement.

If you have significant work that can be done without direct access to the DOM, using a web worker is a good idea. While you have to use [a specialized communication pipeline](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers#transferring_data_to_and_from_workers_further_details) to transfer data to and from a web worker, it's entirely possible to make your web pages much more responsive to user input by using the technology.

However, that communication pipeline can be tricky to set up and use, though there are open source solutions that can simplify this process. [comlink](https://www.npmjs.com/package/comlink) is one such library that helps with this, and can make the developer experience around web workers much more enjoyable.

> Whether you manage web workers on your own or with a library, the point is this: if you have expensive work to do, gauge whether or not it _needs_ to happen on the main thread, and if not, strongly consider using web workers to make the user experience of your websites as good as it possibly can be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whether you manage web workers on your own or with a library, the point is this: if you have expensive work to do, gauge whether or not it needs to happen on the main thread, and if not, strongly consider using web workers to make the user experience of your websites as good as it possibly can be.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages that register at least one paint worklet.",
    content="0.0013%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="263104357",
    sql_file="worklets.sql"
  )
}}

With worklets being such niche technologies, it's not surprising that they're not widely used. Paint worklets are an excellent way of offloading expensive processing for generative artwork onto another thread—not to mention a great technique for adding a bit of flair to the user experience. For every 1 million websites, only 13 of them use a paint worklet.

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages that register at least one audio worklet.",
    content="0.0004%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="263104357",
    sql_file="worklets.sql"
  )
}}

Adoption of audio worklets is even lower: only four in a million websites use it. It will be interesting to see how adoption of these technologies trends over time.

## How is JavaScript delivered?

> An equally important aspect of JavaScript performance is how we _deliver_ scripts to the browser, which includes a few common—yet sometimes missed—opportunities for optimization, starting with how we _compress_ JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An equally important aspect of JavaScript performance is how we deliver scripts to the browser, which includes a few common—yet sometimes missed—opportunities for optimization, starting with how we compress JavaScript.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    image="compression-methods.png",
    caption="Compression of JavaScript by method.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=1805733290&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="1841484709",
    sql_file="compression_method.sql"
  )
}}

There are a few compression techniques that can be used to reduce the transfer size of a script, with the [Brotli](https://github.com/google/brotli) (br) method being the [most effective](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/10/next-generation-server-compression-with-brotli/). Despite Brotli's [excellent support in modern browsers](https://caniuse.com/brotli), it's still clear that [gzip](https://www.gzip.org/) is the most preferred method of compression. This is likely due to the fact that many web servers use it as the default.

> When something is the default, that default sometimes remains in place rather than being tuned for better performance. Given that only 34% of pages observed are compressing scripts with Brotli, it's clear that there's an opportunity on the table to improve the loading performance of script resources, but it's also worth noting that it _is_ an improvement over last year's adoption at 30%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When something is the default, that default sometimes remains in place rather than being tuned for better performance. Given that only 34% of pages observed are compressing scripts with Brotli, it's clear that there's an opportunity on the table to improve the loading performance of script resources, but it's also worth noting that it is an improvement over last year's adoption at 30%.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    image="uncompressed.png",
    caption="Uncompressed resources by size.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=1991115497&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="1609356066",
    sql_file="compression_none_by_bytes.sql"
  )
}}

Thankfully, we're seeing that it's only mostly the smallest resources, specifically those third-party scripts that have payloads smaller than 5 KB, that are being delivered without compression. This is because compression yields diminishing returns when applied to small resources, and in fact, the added overhead of dynamic compression may cause delayed resource delivery. There are, unfortunately, some opportunities across the spectrum to compress larger resources, such as some first-party scripts with payloads over 100 KB.

> _Always_ check your compression settings to ensure you're delivering the smallest possible script payloads over the network, and remember: compression speeds up resource _delivery_. Those scripts, once delivered to the browser, will be decompressed and their processing time will not change due to compression. Compression is not a good excuse to deliver huge script payloads that can make interactivity worse during startup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Always check your compression settings to ensure you're delivering the smallest possible script payloads over the network, and remember: compression speeds up resource delivery. Those scripts, once delivered to the browser, will be decompressed and their processing time will not change due to compression. Compression is not a good excuse to deliver huge script payloads that can make interactivity worse during startup.
```

### Minification

Minification of text assets is a time-tested practice for reducing file size. The practice involves removing all of the unnecessary spaces and comments from source code in order to reduce their transfer size. A further step known as uglification is applied to JavaScript, which reduces all of the variables, class names, and function names in a script to shorter, unreadable symbols. Lighthouse's [Minify JavaScript](https://web.dev/unminified-javascript/) audit checks for unminified JavaScript.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="lighthouse-unminified.png",
    caption="Distribution of unminified JavaScript audit scores.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=968128936&format=interactive",

>     sheets_gid="906447348",
>     sql_file="lighthouse_unminified_js.sql"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    sheets_gid="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSefmoEZjMhonz5fkMTxGIywJn-T7F8vYGAaj9wF9n5l8gApihCf3WCMZtrP3Syg-9E8RD8IKZg62U7/pubchart?oid=906447348&format=interactive",
    sql_file="../third-parties/lighthouse_unminified_js.sql"
```

Author: Thanks! This is the JS metric though :D

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages specifying source map comments to publicly accessible source maps.",
    content="14%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="1840293255",
    sql_file="sourcemaps.sql"
  )
}}

14% of JavaScript resources accessed through mobile devices deliver a source map comment to a source map that is publicly accessible, whereas 15% of JavaScript resources accessed through desktop devices deliver them. However, the story is quite different for pages using a source map HTTP header.

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The number of mobile pages specifying source map headers.",
    content="0.12%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="1454051104",
    sql_file="sourcemap_header.sql"
  )
}}

Only 0.12% of requests for JavaScript resources on mobile devices used a source map HTTP header, whereas the number for desktop devices is 0.07%.

> From a performance perspective, this doesn't mean much. Source maps are a developer experience enhancement. What you _should_ avoid, however, is the use of _inline_ source maps, which insert a base64 representation of the original source into a production-ready JavaScript asset. Inlining source maps means that you're not just sending your JavaScript resources to users, but also their source maps, which can lead to oversized JavaScript assets that take longer to download and process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From a performance perspective, this doesn't mean much. Source maps are a developer experience enhancement. What you should avoid, however, is the use of inline source maps, which insert a base64 representation of the original source into a production-ready JavaScript asset. Inlining source maps means that you're not just sending your JavaScript resources to users, but also their source maps, which can lead to oversized JavaScript assets that take longer to download and process.
```

Consider that a "good" INP score is [200 milliseconds](https://web.dev/inp/#what's-a-%22good%22-inp-value) or less. At the median, both mobile and desktop score below this threshold, but the 75th percentile is another story, with both mobile and desktop segments well within the "needs improvement" range. This data, quite unlike FID, suggests that there are many opportunities for websites to do everything they can to run fewer [long tasks](https://web.dev/long-tasks-devtools/) on pages, which are a key contributor to less-than-good INP scores.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="tbt.png",
    caption="The distribution of pages' lab-based TBT values.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=1624036326&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="947698668",
    sql_file="tbt.sql"
  )
}}

Dovetailing into long tasks, there's the [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](https://web.dev/tbt/) metric, which calculates the total blocking time of long tasks during startup.

> Note that unlike the preceding stats on FID and INP, TBT and TTI (below) are not sourced from real-user data. Instead, we're measuring synthetic performance in [simulated](./methodology#webpagetest) desktop and mobile environments with device-appropriate CPU and network throttling enabled. As a result of this approach, we get exactly one TBT and TTI value for each page, rather than a distribution of real-user values across the entire website.

Reviewer 2: These come form Lighthouse not WPT

```suggestion
Note that unlike the preceding stats on FID and INP, TBT and TTI (below) are not sourced from real-user data. Instead, we're measuring synthetic performance in [simulated](./methodology#lighthouse) desktop and mobile environments with device-appropriate CPU and network throttling enabled. As a result of this approach, we get exactly one TBT and TTI value for each page, rather than a distribution of real-user values across the entire website.
```

Considering that [INP correlates very well with TBT](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/chrome-http-archive-analysis/blob/main/notebooks/HTTP_Archive_TBT_and_INP.ipynb), it's reasonable to assume that high TBT scores may produce poorer INP scores. Using our synthetic approach, we see a wide gulf between desktop and mobile segments, indicating that desktop devices with better processing power and memory are outperforming less capable mobile devices by a wide margin. At the 75th percentile, a page has nearly 3.6 seconds of blocking time, which qualifies as a poor experience.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="tti.png",
    caption="The distribution of the TTI scores by origin and percentile.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=1458856020&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="864627793",
    sql_file="time_to_interactive.sql"
  )
}}

> Finally, we come to [Time to Interactive (TTI)](https://web.dev/tti/), which is considered "good" if the metric comes in at under 5 seconds. Given that only the 10th percentile _barely_ slips in under the 5 second mark, most websites in our simulated environment are relying on JavaScript to such an extent that pages are unable to become interactive within a reasonable timeframe—especially the 90th percentile, which takes a staggering 41.2 seconds to become interactive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we come to [Time to Interactive (TTI)](https://web.dev/tti/), which is considered "good" if the metric comes in at under 5 seconds. Given that only the 10th percentile barely slips in under the 5 second mark, most websites in our simulated environment are relying on JavaScript to such an extent that pages are unable to become interactive within a reasonable timeframe—especially the 90th percentile, which takes a staggering 41.2 seconds to become interactive.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages using synchronous XHR.",
    content="2.5%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="1908785275",
    sql_file="sync_requests.sql"
  )
}}

While synchronous XHR is only used on 2.5% of mobile pages and 2.8% of desktop pages, its continued use—no matter how small—is still a signal that some legacy applications may be relying on this outdated method that harms the user experience.

Avoid using synchronous XHR, and XHR in general. `fetch` is a much more ergonomic alternative that lacks synchronous functionality by design. Your pages will perform better without synchronous XHR, and we hope someday to see this number fall to zero.

### `document.write`

Before the introduction of DOM insertion methods ([`appendChild`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Node/appendChild) and others, for example), [`document.write`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/write) was used to insert content at the position the `document.write` was made in the document.

> `document.write` is very problematic. For one, it blocks the HTML parser, and is problematic for a number of other reasons [the HTML spec itself warns about](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dynamic-markup-insertion.html#document.write()). On slow connections, blocking document parsing to append nodes in this way creates performance problems that are entirely avoidable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`document.write` is very problematic. For one, it blocks the HTML parser, and is problematic for a number of other reasons [the HTML spec itself warns against it's use](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dynamic-markup-insertion.html#document.write()). On slow connections, blocking document parsing to append nodes in this way creates performance problems that are entirely avoidable.
```

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages that ship legacy JavaScript.",
    content="67%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="1408995244",
    sql_file="usage_of_legacy_javascript.sql"
  )
}}

Just over two thirds of mobile pages are shipping JavaScript resources that are being transformed, or otherwise contain unnecessary legacy JavaScript.

Transformations can add a lot of extra bytes to production JavaScript for the sake of compatibility, but unless there is a necessity to support older browsers, many of these transforms are unnecessary, and can harm startup performance. That so many pages on mobile—and 68% of pages on desktop—are shipping these transforms is concerning.

Babel is doing much to solve this problem out of the box, such as through [the compiler assumptions feature](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/assumptions), but Babel is still driven by user-defined configurations, and can only do so much in the presence of outdated configuration files.

> We strongly encourage developers to carefully review their [Babel](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/configuration) and [Browserslist](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist) configurations to ensure that the minimum amount of transforms are applied to code in order for them to work in required browsers. Doing so can result in large reduction of bytes shipped to end users. Developers have a lot of work to do in this area, and we hope to see this figure decline over time now that the language's evolution has relatively stabilized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, we strongly encourage developers to carefully review their [Babel](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/configuration) and [Browserslist](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist) configurations to ensure that the minimum amount of transforms are applied to code in order for them to work in required browsers. Doing so can result in large reduction of bytes shipped to end users. Developers have a lot of work to do in this area, and we hope to see this figure decline over time now that the language's evolution has relatively stabilized.
```

While jQuery is relatively small and reasonably quick at what it does, it still represents a certain amount of overhead in applications. Most of what jQuery offers is now [doable with native DOM APIs](https://youmightnotneedjquery.com/), and may be unnecessary in today's web applications.

The usage of core-js is also not surprising, as many web applications transform their code with Babel, which often uses core-js to fill in missing gaps in APIs across browsers. As browsers mature, this figure should drop—and that would be a good thing indeed, as modern browsers are more capable than ever, and shipping core-js code could end up being wasted bytes.

React usage notably remained the same from last year at 8%, which may be a signal that adoption of the library has plateaued due to an increasing amount of choices in the JavaScript ecosystem.

#### Libraries used together

It's not an uncommon scenario to see multiple frameworks and libraries used on the same page. As with last year, we'll examine this phenomenon to gain insight into how many libraries and frameworks have been used together in 2022.

> <figure markdown>
> | Libraries                                              | Desktop  | Mobile  |
> | ------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ------- |
> | jQuery                                                 | 10.19%   | 10.33%  |
> | jQuery, jQuery Migrate                                 | 4.30%    | 4.94%   |
> | core-js, jQuery, jQuery Migrate                        | 2.48%    | 2.80%   |
> | core-js, jQuery                                        | 2.78%    | 2.74%   |
> | jQuery, jQuery UI                                      | 2.40%    | 2.07%   |
> | core-js, jQuery, jQuery Migrate, jQuery UI             | 1.18%    | 1.36%   |
> | jQuery, jQuery Migrate, jQuery UI                      | 0.88%    | 0.99%   |
> | GSAP, Lodash, Polyfill, React                          | 0.48%    | 0.93%   |
> | Modernizr, jQuery                                      | 0.87%    | 0.86%   |
> | core-js                                                | 0.92%    | 0.85%   |
> 
>   <figcaption>{{ figure_link(
>     caption="Analysis of libraries and frameworks used together on observed pages.",
>     sheets_gid="1200090523",
>     sql_file="frameworks_libraries_combos.sql"
>   ) }}</figcaption>
> </figure>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<figure>
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Libraries</th>
        <th>Desktop</th>
        <th>Mobile</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery</td>
        <td class="numeric">10.19%</td>
        <td class="numeric">10.33%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery, jQuery Migrate</td>
        <td class="numeric">4.30%</td>
        <td class="numeric">4.94%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>core-js, jQuery, jQuery Migrate</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.48%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.80%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>core-js, jQuery</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.78%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.74%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery, jQuery UI</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.40%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.07%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>core-js, jQuery, jQuery Migrate, jQuery UI</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.18%</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.36%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery, jQuery Migrate, jQuery UI</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.88%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.99%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>GSAP, Lodash, Polyfill, React</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.48%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.93%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Modernizr, jQuery</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.87%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.86%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>core-js</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.92%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.85%</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
  <figcaption>{{ figure_link(
    caption="Analysis of libraries and frameworks used together on observed pages.",
    sheets_gid="1200090523",
    sql_file="frameworks_libraries_combos.sql"
  ) }}</figcaption>
</figure>
```

It's clear though that jQuery has some serious staying power, with some combination of it, its UI framework, and its migration plugin occurring in the top seven spots, with core-js having a prominent role in library usage as well.

#### Security vulnerabilities

Given the wide proliferation of JavaScript on today's web, and with the advent of installable JavaScript packages, it's no surprise that security vulnerabilities exist in the JavaScript ecosystem.

{{ figure_markup(
    caption="The percentage of mobile pages that download a vulnerable JavaScript library or framework.",
    content="57%",
    classes="big-number",
    sheets_gid="1881889053",
    sql_file="lighthouse_vulnerabilities.sql"
  )
}}

> While 57% of mobile pages serving up a vulnerable JavaScript library or framework is significant, this figure _is_ down from last year's figure of 64%. This is encouraging, but there's quite a bit of work to be done to lower this figure. We hope that as more security vulnerabilities are patched, developers will be incentivized to update their dependencies to avoid exposing their users to harm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While 57% of mobile pages serving up a vulnerable JavaScript library or framework is significant, this figure is down from last year's figure of 64%. This is encouraging, but there's quite a bit of work to be done to lower this figure. We hope that as more security vulnerabilities are patched, developers will be incentivized to update their dependencies to avoid exposing their users to harm.
```

> <figure markdown>
> Library or framework | Desktop | Mobile
> -- | -- | --
> jQuery | 49.12% | 48.80%
> jQuery UI | 16.01% | 14.88%
> Bootstrap | 11.53% | 11.19%
> Moment.js | 4.54% | 3.91%
> Underscore | 3.41% | 3.11%
> Lo-Dash | 2.52% | 2.44%
> GreenSock JS | 1.65% | 1.62%
> Handlebars | 1.27% | 1.12%
> AngularJS | 0.99% | 0.79%
> Mustache | 0.44% | 0.57%
> 
>   <figcaption>{{ figure_link(
>     caption="The percentage of pages having known JavaScript vulnerabilities among the top ten most commonly used libraries and frameworks.",
>     sheets_gid="1532536873",
>     sql_file="lighthouse_vulnerable_libraries.sql"
>   ) }}</figcaption>
> </figure>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<figure>
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Library or framework</th>
        <th>Desktop</th>
        <th>Mobile</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery</td>
        <td class="numeric">49.12%</td>
        <td class="numeric">48.80%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery UI</td>
        <td class="numeric">16.01%</td>
        <td class="numeric">14.88%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Bootstrap</td>
        <td class="numeric">11.53%</td>
        <td class="numeric">11.19%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Moment.js</td>
        <td class="numeric">4.54%</td>
        <td class="numeric">3.91%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Underscore</td>
        <td class="numeric">3.41%</td>
        <td class="numeric">3.11%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Lo-Dash</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.52%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.44%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>GreenSock JS</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.65%</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.62%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Handlebars</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.27%</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.12%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>AngularJS</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.99%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.79%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Mustache</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.44%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.57%</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
  <figcaption>{{ figure_link(
    caption="The percentage of pages having known JavaScript vulnerabilities among the top ten most commonly used libraries and frameworks.",
    sheets_gid="1532536873",
    sql_file="lighthouse_vulnerable_libraries.sql"
  ) }}</figcaption>
</figure>
```

  )
}}

According to <a hreflang="en" href="https://web.dev/unused-javascript/">Lighthouse</a>, the median mobile page loads 162 KB of unused JavaScript. At the 90th percentile, 604 KB of JavaScript are unused. This is a slight uptick from last year, where the median and 90th percentile of unused JavaScript was 155 KB and 598 KB, respectively. All of this represents a _very_ large amount of unused JavaScript, especially when you consider that this analysis tracks the _transfer size_ of JavaScript resources which, if compressed, means that the decompressed portion of used JavaScript may be a lot larger than the chart suggests.

When contrasted with the total number of bytes loaded for mobile pages at the median, unused JavaScript accounts for 35% of all loaded scripts. This is down slightly from last year's figure of 36%, but is still a significantly large chunk of bytes loaded that go unused. This suggests that many pages are loading scripts that may not be used on the current page, or are triggered by interactions later on in the page lifecycle, and may benefit from [dynamic `import()`](#dynamic-import) to reduce startup costs.

## JavaScript requests per page

> Every resource on a page accounts for one request, and scripts are no different. When many scripts are loaded, it's reasonable to think that more bytes of JavaScript may be loaded as a result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every resource on a page will kick off _at least_ one request, and possibly more if a resource makes additional requests for more resources.

Where script requests are concerned, the more there are, the more likely you'll not just load more JavaScript, but also increase contention between script resources that may bog down the main thread, leading to slower startup.
```

  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Library or framework</th>
        <th>Desktop</th>
        <th>Mobile</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery</td>
        <td class="numeric">49.12%</td>
        <td class="numeric">48.80%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>jQuery UI</td>
        <td class="numeric">16.01%</td>
        <td class="numeric">14.88%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Bootstrap</td>
        <td class="numeric">11.53%</td>
        <td class="numeric">11.19%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Moment.js</td>
        <td class="numeric">4.54%</td>
        <td class="numeric">3.91%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Underscore</td>
        <td class="numeric">3.41%</td>
        <td class="numeric">3.11%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Lo-Dash</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.52%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.44%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>GreenSock JS</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.65%</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.62%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Handlebars</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.27%</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.12%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>

>         <td>AngularJS</td>

Reviewer 3: Can we link to the [AngularJS](https://angularjs.org)' website? We did poor job with branding and people still think that's [Angular](https://angular.io).

{{ figure_markup(
    image="lighthouse-unminified.png",
    caption="Distribution of unminified JavaScript audit scores.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=968128936&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="906447348",
    sql_file="lighthouse_unminified_js.sql"
  )
}}

Here, 0.00 represents the worst score whereas 1.00 represents the best score. 68% of mobile pages are scoring between 0.9 and 1.0 on Lighthouse's minified JavaScript audit, whereas the figure for desktop pages is 79%. This means that on mobile, 32% of pages have opportunities to ship minified JavaScript, whereas that figure for desktop pages is 21%.

> {# TODO(editors): This metric corresponds to the 3P chapter, not the JS chapter. Edit this to ensure that the metadata links to the right source sheet/query. #}

Author: @tunetheweb what's the way to reference a metric from another chapter?

Reviewer 2: You can insert it using relative paths (including the full sheets gid URL) like this:

https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/blob/f66e3ff3147fd4b5f02d3b42c327716a183e41d1/src/content/en/2020/javascript.md#L28-L35

Personally my preference is to duplicate the query and data in this chapter and present a slightly different spin on it rather than just duplicate it. A bit of repetition but removes dependency on another chapter, and allows this chapter name to be on the graph.

However, the picture gets much worse at higher percentiles. Long tasks at the 75th percentile per page are 32 and 12 on mobile and desktop, respectively.

{{ figure_markup(
    image="long-tasks-time.png",
    caption="Distribution of long tasks time per page.",
    description="TODO",
    chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTok8UGqYaA58uKaASB2pfM2jlmQu6g3kwHxB6Lb8L7dbccyDtQht823YhchdXRG8SZpB3asRayJI97/pubchart?oid=970989213&format=interactive",
    sheets_gid="1295792422",
    sql_file="distribution_of_long_tasks_time.sql"
  )
}}

It's not enough to know how many long tasks there are per page—we need to understand the total time those tasks are taking on pages. The median mobile page has 3.59 seconds of time dedicated to long tasks, whereas desktop pages have far less at 0.74 seconds.

{# TODO(authors): Consider rephrasing the "these results spell trouble" bit below, given that the results are coming from a simulated Moto G4 device in the lab. #}

> The 75th percentile suggests a much worse picture for those on mobile devices, coming in at nearly 6.6 seconds of processing time per page dedicated to handling long tasks. This is a _lot_ of time the browser is spending on intense work that could be optimized or even possibly be moved to web workers on a different thread. In any case, these results spell trouble for the mobile web and responsiveness.

Author: @malchata this is the part I mentioned in the [draft doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Mqcp5ME04fn15ujO-J65eMZJlQ6ADEbXozttx0MJw8/edit?disco=AAAAgb0xmwo) that might need to be rephrased.

Reviewer 2: Personally I think it's fine. They "spell" trouble, but not necessarily are trouble.

```suggestion
{# TODO(authors): Consider rephrasing the "these results spell trouble" bit below, given that the results are coming from a simulated Moto G4 device in the lab. #}

The 75th percentile suggests a much worse picture for those on mobile devices, coming in at nearly 6.6 seconds of processing time per page dedicated to handling long tasks. This is a lot of time the browser is spending on intense work that could be optimized or even possibly be moved to web workers on a different thread. In any case, these results spell trouble for the mobile web and responsiveness.
```
